# thumbnail-python

## Project structure

```bash
.
├── README.md                   <-- This instructions file
├── src                         <-- Source code for the Lambda function
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── app.py                  <-- Lambda function code
├── template.yaml               <-- SAM template

```

## Requirements

- AWS CLI
- [Python 3.6 installed](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Docker installed](https://www.docker.com/community-edition)
- [Python Virtual Environment](http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/)

## Deploy the sample application

To deploy the application, you need the folllowing tools:

- SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
- Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS with the default `samconfig.toml` in the project. Alternatively, you can run `sam deploy --guided` to deploy with a series of prompts:

- **Stack Name**: The name of the stack to deploy to CloudFormation. This should be unique to your account and region, and a good starting point would be something matching your project name.
- **AWS Region**: The AWS region you want to deploy your app to.
- **Confirm changes before deploy**: If set to yes, any change sets will be shown to you before execution for manual review. If set to no, the AWS SAM CLI will automatically deploy application changes.
- **Allow SAM CLI IAM role creation**: Many AWS SAM templates, including this example, create AWS IAM roles required for the AWS Lambda function(s) included to access AWS services. By default, these are scoped down to minimum required permissions. To deploy an AWS CloudFormation stack which creates or modifies IAM roles, the `CAPABILITY_IAM` value for `capabilities` must be provided. If permission isn't provided through this prompt, to deploy this example you must explicitly pass `--capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM` to the `sam deploy` command.
- **Save arguments to `samconfig.toml`**: If set to yes, your choices will be saved to a configuration file inside the project, so that in the future you can just re-run `sam deploy` without parameters to deploy changes to your application.

You can find your API Gateway Endpoint URL in the output values displayed after deployment.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
thumbnail-rust$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name thumbnail-rust --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
sam delete
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.
